<h3># This repository is my first attempt at sharing example code used for analyzing next generation sequencing (NGS). The code was run in Linux bash shell and R. I used Subread (available through bioconda), and edgeR (run using RStudio) to analyze changes in RNA expression. My practice data set were previously published single-cell transcriptomes, downloaded from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA). I used the Subread/featureCounts function to quantitate transcription in Dbp1 knockdown and control murine cells. The function returned a dataframe with several columns, including one column with Gene names and another with ints = the number of transcripts detected during sequencing.</h3>

<h3># Additionally, edgeR, which I ran using RStudio, was used in the analysis of the knockdown. edgeR output a dataframe of Genes, fold-change (FC) in expression, as well as statistical significance (PValue), and false discovery rate (FDR). I then created two lists from the output, knockdown and increased expression, by filtering for PValues <= 0.05, then sorting the output by FC using a basic spread sheet. Knockdown was defined as FC < 0.6667 of the control (= 1.5 fold decrease in expression). Increased expression was defined as FC > 1.500 .</h3>

<h3># From the three test transcriptomes, three control transcriptomes, and a murine reference genome, featureCounts output six dataframes. Combined, featureCounts detected transcripts for ~10,000 genes; many were marginally expressed, while some where strongly expressed. edgeR was able to output a second dataframe, sortable by FC, PValue, and FDR. Selection for PValues < 0.05 removed approximately half the output. Subsequent selection removed transcripts in which fold change 1.500 > FC > 0.6667, reducing the output to approximately 4,500 transcripts. Both increased and decreased expression were given their own datafame output.</h3>
